# Heart and Breathing Rate Sensor 

## Overview

The code in this package assists in the data obtention and analysis from the Seeed Studio 60GHz Heartbeat and Breathing Radar Sensor for it to work in the Raspberry Pi board. The data generated by this code consists on the projection of different values, as well as the evaluation of their parameters in relation to the heartbeat, breathing status of the patient, if the patient is within the range, also including sleeping schedule alerts. The code is expected to run until it reaches 5000 characters.

## Setup

Since the Seeed Studio 60GHz Heartbeat and Breathing Radar Sensor is a relatively new module, the code and library provided by the company was followed in Arduino. For this project’s purpose, the board required for the sensor to function and get installed accordingly was a Raspberry Pi board. Therefore, a new library needed to be created, and the code had to be translated into Python for it to work.

The was connected to the serial port of the Pi. Make sure to enable the serial port in your Raspi-config. Connect the 5V, GND, Tx, and Rx. Note you should connect RX to TX and TX to RX.

## Results

The sensor’s experimental testing was completed with different subjects, additionally including after workout measurements, making them vary to test their accuracy. The comparisons made for the heartbeat rate detection were based on the sensor’s direct output and a smart watch. For the breathing rate data collection, the sensor’s output was compared to the manual lab record of breath rate.

The data and observations obtained from the experiment demonstrated that the sensor module measured the parameters up to a 85% accuracy. Almost all of the measurements differed in one or two points from the ones shown on the smart watch. To increase the level of accuracy, the subject must stay still for a minute within the sensor’s range. 
# 
To view our *complete results* and *accuracy graphs* please visit our poster [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1cZVY9iUgGnpz2CNg0B3yTOZmMcHKgG9y/view?usp=sharing).

#

Made with ❤️ by  Valeria Leal, Mariana Flores, Enya Solis, Paul Verdugo
